# Analysis of Soil for Crop Fertilizer and Rainfall Detection: A Machine Learning Approach

This system aims to detect a system for “Crop Fertilizer and RainFall” that is a combination of agriculture and weather. This system develops a Crop Fertilizer and RainFall detection system using Machine Learning (ML) approach. Here used three datasets for Crop Fertilizer and Rainfall. The system used some popular Machine Learning algorithms like Random Forest, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression, k-Nearest Neighbors (kNN), Gaussian Naive Bayes (GaussianNB), Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), CatBoost, LightGBM and Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithms. Then it measured the best performer in terms of evaluation metrics. Using Machine Learning algorithms this system predicts crops (which crop is suitable for a particular field/soil), fertilizer (which fertilizer is best for a particular crop) and rainfall (rainfall: tomorrow is going to be a rainy day or sunny day). However, the results confirm that, the Random Forest algorithm for Crop, CatBoostClassifier for Fertilizer and CatBoostClassifier for Rainfall prediction, provide the best accuracy for this system. The proposed system achieved an accuracy of 97.89% for Crop, 92.85% for Fertilizer, and 86.26% for Rainfall dataset that was not done previously and improve the accuracy of the other method of machine learning. So Crop Fertilizer and RainFall Detection provide the best accuracy using Random Forest algorithm and CatBoostClassifier algorithm for this system.
